Organisms interact with their environment at multiple spatial and temporal levels, often in a hierarchical manner. Recognizing that variation in recruitment is considered a key factor in population growth of wild turkeys (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris), we developed a multi-level modelling framework to analyze the sequential processes affecting turkey reproductive success during breeding and nesting periods. Specifically, we created a pre-nesting movement model, a nest-site selection model, and a nest success model, which allowed us to explore how fine-scale vegetation metrics, coarse-scale land cover classifications, weather variables, and individual characteristics, influenced reproductive success. These models were applied to a dataset of female turkeys in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and New Jersey USA. At the landscape-scale, hens in Pennsylvania and New Jersey exhibited differing patterns of habitat selection during pre-nesting relative to deciduous forest. Hens in Pennsylvania selected for areas with deciduous forest landcover whereas hens in New Jersey selected for grassland/shrub and wetland, while selecting against developed land use relative to deciduous forest. Further, hens in Maryland selected for mixed forest, wetland and greater distances from primary roads during pre-nesting. During nest-site selection, hens in Pennsylvania selected locations with greater visual obstruction, and a greater abundance of both ferns and understory woody vegetation, but fewer individual woody stems. Further, in Pennsylvania we detected positive effects on daily nest survival probability for evergreen forest land cover, percent fern, and incubation constancy. In Maryland, during nest-site selection, hens selected for pasture relative to deciduous forest, but nests in this cover type had lower daily nest survival probability. We further found that nest survival decreased with closer proximity to secondary roads in Maryland and to primary roads in New Jersey. When modelling the effects of disease and parasitic infection on daily nest survival probability, we found that coinfection of LPDV and Eimeria sp. had a negative effect. Our findings highlight the complexity of understanding turkey reproductive behavior, suggesting that a combination of habitat features, disease dynamics, behavioral factors, and individual traits influence reproductive success.
